---
layout: post
title: DCC RPG 80, 81, 82
category: blog
tags:
    - dccrpg
    - osr
gplus:
date: 2015-07-10 03:48 pm
---

I recently backed the two Kickstarters that resulted in small boxed sets from [Goodman Games][1]. As part of the first Kickstarter I ended up picking up a modules I was missing from their [DCC RPG][2] line. I have continued to collect the modules they have been putting out, despite the fact I don’t play DCC RPG or really use modules when gaming. In this fashion I am a bit of an idiot.[^1]

[_DCC RPG 80: Intrigue at the Courts of Chaos_][3] opens with player characters being whisked away to said courts. There is nothing they can do to avoid their fate, but you paid good money for this module so the least they can do it shut up and take their loss of agency like proper friends. Once at the eponymous Courts of Chaos the players negotiate with the various lords of Chaos to determine whether to undertake a quest to retrieve a MacGuffin artifact—well, sort of:

> Give the party time to debate the merits and drawbacks of serving the Host, but realistically, unless they choose to martyr themselves for their beliefs, they have little choice but to agree—if temporarily—to accept the Host’s demands.

Well, that seems kind of lame. The "dungeon" the MacGuffin is located within is basically a spoke of 5 rooms, where players are required to visit each room and solve a puzzle to get to the final room and their goal. I thought the presentation of both the lawful plane and the chaos plane was a little bit uninspired. I wasn’t too impressed with this module, though the art is great. I know other people have actually ran it and had a lot of fun, so keep that in mind when I complain about it. 

[DCC RPG 81: _The One Who Watches From Below_][4] is a more traditional dungeon crawl. Characters explore a cave that happens to be sitting on top of a temple dedicated to an Elder God. There are eyeballs throughout the adventure, all used to good effect. As usual, the cover art is pretty fantastic.

The adventure features one of the most creative curses I've read, which also happens to involve eyeballs. The requirements placed on cursed players would probably make this a tricky module to run online, via a video chat. In person I think playing the curse would be a lot of fun. This is probably one of the better dungeon crawls put out by DCC RPG. Or maybe I just like this curse a lot.

[DCC RPG 82: _Bride of the Black Manse_][5] is another example of Goodman Games branching out from their usual fare. The adventure takes place in a manor home, and is meant to be played over 4 hours of real time. Inspiration for the adventure comes from Fritz Leiber’s _The Howling Tower_, Edgar Allen Poe’s _The Fall of the House of Usher_, and Stanley Kubrick’s _The Shining_. This looks like it’d be a fun module to run. The manse is a small setting, but it changes as the hours tick by in the real world. Players will need to be mindful of how much time they are wasting while playing.

I still have mixed feelings about the DCC RPG line. Many of the modules feel like they have the same underlying structure, which is usually quite linear. This set of modules was interesting because for the most part they are each unique in their own way. Anyway, these Goodman games modules are probably worth the price of admission for the Doug Kovacs covers.

[^1]: [Zak Smith wrote an interesting article on consumerism in gaming.][6] I think in many hobbies there is always a subset of people who participate in the hobby simply by buying things. With photography I knew a lot of photographers who were more into buying lenses and cameras than they were in learning how to take good pictures. Similarly there are people who seemingly buy gaming books, but don't really use them to much effect, or produce their own gaming work. 

[1]: http://goodman-games.com/
[2]: http://goodman-games.com/dccrpg.html
[3]: http://goodman-games.com/5081preview.html
[4]: http://goodman-games.com/5082preview.html
[5]: http://goodman-games.com/5083preview.html
[6]: http://dndwithpornstars.blogspot.ca/2015/07/radical-game-critique-isnt.html