---
layout: post
title: Breakout 2017
category: blog
tags:
- convention
- breakoutcon
- breakoutcon2017
gplus: https://plus.google.com/+RamananS/posts/JsXi9fyazXA
date: 2017-03-17 10:39 pm
---

[Breakout 2017][1] was a lot of fun. I'm glad I grabbed tickets a million years ago. (I wish I could remember how I heard about it now.) It'd been over a year since I last attended a big gaming event. The weekend was exhausting, but I got to try a bunch of games I'd likely have never played if left to my own devices. I also got to see a bunch of gamers I only know from the internet, and a few friends I don’t see nearly enough.

The organizers of Breakout are indie-gamers so that side of table top gaming was well represented. Lots of indie game designers and players are in attendance. If you want to play indie games this convention has you covered. There was also a really big contingent of people playing D&D 5e Adventurers League. My old DM from back when I was playing 4e public-play is a big part of that scene and was there as well so I got to catch up with him. If you were into boardgames there was an even bigger room full of people playing those. If you are the most hard core of old-school D&D nerds you might find the convention lacking: Kiel Chenier was the only person running anything old-school. Maybe that'll change as the convention grows.

This was the biggest gaming convention I've been to. Of course, I basically go to none so maybe that's not saying much. There were lots of people and lots of games, anyway. The old-school D&D conventions in Toronto (OSRCon and OSCon) are much more modest in their scope in comparison. This convention was big, but not overwhelming and annoying the way FanExpo has become.

I ended up playing 4 games while at the convention (2 games of [Night Witches][2], a game of [Apocalypse World][3], and a game of [Swords Without Masters][4]), and attended one panel. I spent the rest of my time hanging out and drinking beer. My advice to anyone attending a convention is to not go overboard with the gaming. I ended up with a few gaps in my schedule and it gave me time to relax and chat with the other people there. That’s often just as much fun as gaming.

The convention was well organized and well run. People were friendly. I had a nice time at all my games, and the people playing them were are all really welcoming. You can't ask for much more than that.

[1]: https://breakoutcon.com
[2]: /review/night-witches-reprise/
[3]: /review/apocalypse-world/
[4]: /review/swords-without-masters/